>> Jon Kuperman: Cool, so screen readers,
they're one of the most pivotal
pieces of assistive technology,
one of the most well-associated
concepts with accessibility.
And in our previous exercise,
we all got them installed and
running on our computers,
which I think is an amazing start.
I honestly find even just using them for
a little bit really helped build
up my kind of understanding.
I remember specifically doing
an accessibility talk years ago in
San Francisco.
And there was somebody went before me and
he was giving his presentation,
he was doing all these slides,
all this live coding.
And then at a certain point,
he accidentally knocked his headphone,
this is gonna date me a little bit,
out of the headphone jack.
This is pre-Bluetooth headphones,
anyway, and
throughout the whole auditorium you
heard his screen reader reading.
Nobody knew that he was blind and
he was doing the entire thing based off of
screen reader back out to the keyboard.
And so
the kind of two amazing things were, one,
he was able to do this incredibly
robust live programming demo.
And two, the thing I think that surprises
everybody is how fast the screen reader
reading gets for people who use it
every day, as we're starting and
it's however many words per minute.
And then you hang out with somebody
who uses it all day, every day, and
it is inconceivably fast sometimes,
how fast the content is being read in.
How do screen readers work?
They convert your digital
text into synthesized speech.
So they basically allow
users to hear content and
then navigate with the keyboard.
So the user's input remains
the keyboard and the kind of
output remains this speech through their
headphones or through their speakers.
So this technology helps people
who are blind or have low vision.
And ideally, when the website is designed
correctly, it gives them the same level of
independence and privacy as anyone else
using the website in any other way.
One thing that I just wanted to kind of
hit home again when we start looking into
semantic HTML is the screen readers don't
just top to bottom read the website,
they also offer a lot
of navigation tooling.
So you can kind of jump to next section,
view all the headers, view all the links,
find the next input field,
things like that.
So thinking about your website
in this kind of structure can be
really important because screen reader
users are often going to be sort
of power users who are really
jumping around your website and
not necessarily just sitting there
taking it all in one item at a time.
Screen readers display read all
of the content aloud to the user.
They also have the opportunity
to display a list of links,
display a list of headings, or navigate
back and forth between these things.
Popular screen readers,
just in case you have heard of some and
maybe not others, JAWS is by far the most
popular, it's premium Windows software.
Coming up closely behind it is NVDA,
which hopefully the Windows
users got installed today.
And then below that is VoiceOver,
which is the one that comes default
installed on Mac operating systems.
A lot of these too, just to make
a side note, have equivalencies in,
let's say, the mobile world as well.
So VoiceOver exists on iOS, and
then Android has its own screen
reader built-in, so
these experience is largely the same.
Mobile provides some really cool
additional things where you can have
accessibility features tied to
different types of presses and taps and
things like that.
But for the sake of this course, and
it's going to be quite web specific,
we're just going to be talking about
desktop and laptop screen readers for web.
So some important things as we
think about taking our website and
making sure it will work very
well with a screen reader.
One of the most important, and
probably the one that people have heard
of the most often, is alternative text.
So who's heard/worked
with alt text before?
Okay, yeah, great.
So the idea being that when a screen
reader encounters an image,
if we don't add alt text,
it'll do its best to help the user by
reading the file name itself to the user.
And so,this can be okay.
I mean, I think we can all start
thinking about the screenshots and
images we take and how often we name them
something that we would like users to see,
and it's not 100%, but it can be
particularly tricky for generated images.
So if you have any kind of website that
allows users to upload or automatically
generate images, we know that we
don't just name them what they are,
we often hash the name so
that there's no collisions.
And you end up with these really,
really long, and complicated file names.
So some examples that I
kind of like to put up are,
if you go to various popular websites and
you inspect element with the dev tools,
and you kind of take a look
at what the images are named.
And then start trying to imagine what it
would be like as a screen reader user
running into one of these images.
So Flickr has just this
kind of normal hash name,
172428, is very complicated.
Twitter does the same thing,
they have this file hash.JPEG.
Facebook doesn't even use images,
they're PHP files,
so as you can imagine,
you're trying to see what the image is.
The image is a cat, or a graph, or
something like that, and it just starts
reading out this 150 character PHP file
extension, so this can be very difficult.
So it's quite easy to fix, and
there's lots of different cool things
we can do within alternative text.
So the traditional case, let's say,
is that it's your image,
you're uploading it, and you're using HTML
with an image tag to image source to it.
You can go ahead and
add this alt attribute here, and
you can put anything
that you want in there.
So screen readers will read that
text instead of the file name.
So instead of image KSJ,
it'll say image, A puppy in the park.
Some quick tips for alt text is,
I see these kind of mistakes a lot,
you don't need to say that it
is an image of or a photo of,
because the screen reader will
read the image tag first.
And it should just describe what is
actually pertinent in the image.
But really take a second to think about
what's pertinent because I also see a lot
of people who do alt text graph, or chart,
or something like that, and it's okay.
But if this is a technical post and
the important thing you're describing
kubernetes cluster or something like that,
just saying graph or chart is not going
to get people enough information.
So really think about why
you added that image and
what it needs to convey to the user.
We also have lots of cases where
images are just presentational, right?
So you can imagine a blog post and just to
make your post look better, you put some
abstract piece of art or something
like that at the top of each image.
So it's very easy to instruct screen
readers to just skip an image too,
which is just by adding the alt
attribute but putting in a blank string.
So these are really great for
anything that's presentational,
where it's unimportant for users to
actually understand what's in the image.
It's just there to kind of make
the website look nicer, designed better.
It's also largely, this starts getting
a little bit subtle where if you
have user generated images and
you're not sure what they are,
skipping over them is one option.
But it would probably be a better
option to put user generated image or
something like that in there.
But anyway, we have a lot of leeway here,
so we can put anything we want in or
we can put an empty string and
force the screen reader to skip over it.
>> Speaker 2: Because we are talking about
the image tag, how about the picture tag
because you can have an image
embedded within the picture tag?
>> Jon Kuperman: Yes, so with the picture
tag, that's a great question.
So the picture tag you can't
add an alt attribute, but
you can add either ARIA labelled by or
aria described by to it.
So when we get into the ARIA section,
there's essentially equivalent
ways that do the exact same thing.
So when the screen reader hits it,
it will tell it what the description
of that picture tag is.
Yeah, really, really similar,
that's a great question.
One note here, this is an area
where we sort of clash with
another subindustry of development,
which is SEO.
So search engines for a long time have
made use of alternative text, and for
many, many years SEO shops have suggested
that you stuff keywords that you wanna
rank for into the alt text.
So I don't know if anybody has done
any of this kind of web marketing or
things like that where they recommend that
you just take your Google keywords and
stuff them into every picture,
this is really difficult.
I think Google has largely turned down
this signal, but it does still exist and
I do still see it all the time
where it'll be an image of a dog,
and the alt text will be, best free
headphones, Samsung deal on headphone,
whatever it is, stuff like that.
So do keep in mind that I understand the
temptation to boost your search results,
but it's a very bad accessibility
experience and it is the lowest level
level A compliance that you need to
have appropriate alternative text.
So you could get into some legal gray area
for having inappropriate alt text here.
This, for the future of this course,
will be the kind of WebAIM screenshots
that I use whenever we're tackling
a standards compliance specific issue and
webaim's kind of explanation of it.
So instead of me just saying alt text
is important, we can take WebAIM and
WebAIM says here, in order to be
level A compliant on the left and
then here's a list of things.
So images need to have equivalent and
appropriate alternative text.
If they don't display content, they
need to be the empty string like we saw.
Alternatives to complex images can be
provided in content or separately linked.
Buttons need to have descriptive values
like submit form as opposed to go.
Form inputs also need to have labels,
these kind of things.
So just kind of not necessarily
needing to memorize this now, but
this is the form that the course will take
as we cover a compliance issue where we
will have the equivalent
WebAIM recommendation for it.
Similarly, remembering not all
content on the web is visual.
So while images need these alt text, audio
needs some kind of captioning service.
And again, coming back to
the WebAIM requirements here,
to be level A compliant transcripts of
relevant content need to be provided for
any non-live audio only files,
like an audio podcast or an MP3.
And a transcript or audio description
needs to be provided for non-live video.
And then to be captions and other things
for prerecorded videos, we have some
other level A compliance issues, like
synchronized captions need to be provided,
and we have a link here to what
synchronized captions means.
And then transcript or
audio descriptions needs to be
provided also for non-live video.
So basically just kind of the things that
we see a lot where if you have anything
recorded, there's all sorts of like,
you can get a human transcription service,
you can use some automated tool
with varying degrees of success.
But you need to have some way of
presenting this content in a visual form.
Does that make sense?
So we've got the images needing,
the alt text and
the audio needing some
kind of transcription.